So we need to call add project from inside the project list
but and that's the tricky part, in
another instance. So we can't use this here this add project because this would call it in the same instance.
So what can we do regarding that?
Well we can use an approach which we haven't really used before but we learned about it and that's a callback
function, we can use a callback function.
We can expect that for example on the constructor here, we get a second argument, not just a type of this
list but also the switch handler function you could say, we can name it switch handler function and
now we can store this in a property here,
this switch handler maybe is equal to switch handler function.
By the way, I now also want to store the type here in a property and now with the switch handler function
stored here, this should actually be a pointer at a function, we can call this switch handler,
that's my property name here in switch project and then here, for example pass the project which we
want to switch which we can get by reaching out to our projects array and there, with find, not find index
but find we can get the object for a given criteria which we pass in this anonymous function and there,
I'm interested in the project where the ID is equal to the project ID.
So now we pass that project to switch handler,
now the question just is
what is the switch handler function?
Where's this coming from?
We're receiving it here in the constructor but right now of course down there, where we instantiate project
list, we're not passing anything in there.
Well that's the thing which we have to do now,
I want to pass something in there,
so as a second argument to the constructor and the thing which you want to pass in there, that can be
a tricky part.
I want to pass in a function which is part of the other instance and therefore we actually can't use the
constructor because we need both instances to be finished to be able to reach out to them.
So let's adjust this a tiny bit, get rid of that constructor argument, cut this line, leave the type assignment
here though and add a new method, set switch handler function for example, any name of your choice and
there, add this logic which you just cut, also accept this argument of course and now we can call that
on our instances.
So down here where we create the instances, for example on the active projects list, we can call set
switch handler function and now we can define which function should be called when we in the end then
call this property as we do it here
and this should be add project in the other instance because that will then allow us to here add the
logic to receive a project and add it in that instance of project list.
So here, I want to point at finished project list because I'm setting this up for the active projects
list,
so I'll point at finished projects list, add project at this function.
I don't execute the function here, I don't add parentheses, I just point at the function with that function
name just as we do it on an event listener for example because this function will be executed on our
behalf, it will be executed by this line here. Now one important thing we'll have to do here is we'll
have to bind this inside of that receiving function though, we'll have to bind it to finished projects
list in this case because since we'll be calling this add project function effectively with this line,
this inside of add project would normally refer to the same thing this refers to here
and that would be the wrong instance
right
because we're calling this on the other instance,
so we have to bind this in add project to that instance where we want it to execute and not from where
we call it.
And then we can basically copy that and now replace active projects list with finished projects list
and on the other hand replace finished projects list here with active projects list
and now we got this set up and just to show you what I mean here, we can now console log this here inside
of add project to see when this runs. To see something though, we'll need to do one final thing, switch
project here,
that is something we now need to connect to our event listener here which we in turn have in project
item.
Now in order to be able to call a method from project list inside of project item, we also have to make
sure we get this method into project item and we can use the constructor for this and accept a second
argument which we maybe could call update project lists and then store this here in a property, update
project list is equal to update project lists or maybe call this update project lists function to make
it clear that this is a function and here, add handler at the end to be consistent with the naming and
now this will be expected to point at a function because I'll pass in the second argument to project
item here when we create a project item here in project list and there, I want to pass it in switch project.
So here, we can pass in this switch project, important here we need to bind this so that this inside of
switch project refers to this class here and not to project item or to the event source to be precise because
now, I'll bind this event listener to this update project list handler which in the end will then just
execute whatever we pass in here, so which in the end will execute the switch project method. Now passing
around all these references can be confusing, I am aware of this, it is a way of ensuring that our classes
or our instances can communicate with each other and for example you can use the debugging tools which
I showed you in the debugging section and set some breakpoints to better understand the flow of information
here if you're having problems following along with that. For now if we save that and we reload and we
click on finish, we see this being logged right because I am logging this here in add project and that's
in the end what's getting called here and there we see OK, this now was called in the finished list even
though I clicked on it here in the active projects list and this proves that our logic works because
now we want to add it in the finished projects list and therefore add project should run into finished
projects lists,
so this is working. The next step is now to ensure that we add logic here to indeed add that project
in the finished project list and we also move the DOM element of course.